# Auxiliary Bar

The Auxiliary Bar is a secondary toolbar that can be placed anywhere on the screen. You can add, remove, and reorder
widgets on the Auxiliary Bar in the same way as the main toolbar.

![](images/docs/toolbar-aux-bar-settings-1.png)

The settings for the Auxiliary Bar are similar to those of the main toolbar. You can adjust the position, alignment, and
visibility of the Auxiliary Bar to suit your needs. The main difference between the two toolbars is that the Auxiliary
Bar consists of a single row of widgets, while the main toolbar has three sections: the left side, the center, and the
right side. The Auxiliary Bar can also be placed anywhere on the screen and always grows horizontally based on the
number of widgets you've added to it.

## Bar position and alignment

First decide where you want to place the Auxiliary Bar on the screen and configure the "Horizontal Alignment"
accordingly. This option determines which way the bar will grow when you add widgets to it. If you choose "Left", the
bar will grow to the right, and if you choose "Right", the bar will grow to the left. The center alignment will make the
bar grow in both directions instead.

Once you're happy with the alignment, use the "Horizontal position" and "Vertical position" settings to place the bar
where you want it on the screen. The "Horizontal position" setting determines the distance from the left or right edge
of the screen, depending on the alignment you've chosen. The "Vertical position" setting determines the distance from
the top of the screen.

Widget popups will position themselves based on whether the bar is placed above or below 50% of the screen height. If
the bar is placed above 50%, the popups will appear below the bar, and if the bar is placed below 50%, the popups will
appear above the bar.

## Conditional visibility

The Auxiliary Bar comes with its own set of visibility options that work in addition to the main toolbar's
[Visibility Settings](#toolbar/toolbar-settings--visibility-settings). This means that if your main toolbar's visibility
settings hide the toolbar, the Auxiliary Bar will also be hidden. However, if the main toolbar is visible, the Auxiliary
Bar can still be hidden based on its own visibility settings.

The visibility settings for the Auxiliary Bar are similar to those of the main toolbar. You can choose to hide the bar
when you're in combat, when you're in a duty, or when you're in a cutscene, among other options. The Auxiliary Bar does
not have an "Auto-hide" option that slides the bar in and out of view based on your mouse cursor's position, because the
bar can be placed anywhere on the screen.

## Widget arrangement

The Auxiliary Bar consists of a single row of widgets that can be added, removed, and reordered to create your own
custom layout. Please refer to the [Toolbar Widgets](#toolbar/introduction) section for more information on how to
manage widgets on the toolbar.
